---
title: Glossary of Basic Terms
category: editor
---

## <a name="diva-client"></a>DIVA Client

DIVA Client is an application you run on your edit suite, which allows you to mount the DIVA Drives over the network.
A username and password is required to sign into DIVA Client.

## <a name="diva-fusion"></a>DIVA Fusion

DIVA Fusion is the management website for the DIVA system.
This is where administrators create and manage DIVA Drives, user accounts, and the rest of the system.
It is also where you can download the DIVA Client installer, as well as any other tools the administrator has made available.
It is hosted on the same computer as DIVA Server, and is often also as DIVA Node.

## <a name="diva-node"></a>DIVA Node

A DIVA Node is a computer which hosts DIVA Drives for you to use on your edit suite.
In a single Node installation, this is the same computer as DIVA Fusion and DIVA Server.
DIVA Node itself is an application which completes jobs generated by DIVA Fusion, such as creating a new drive, or assigning a user to a drive.

## <a name="diva-server"></a>DIVA Server

DIVA Server is the application which serves as the single communications between multiple DIVA Nodes.
It is the same computer where the DIVA Fusion management website is hosted, and in a single Node installation is also running DIVA Node.
It is also where the USB license key is attached.

## <a name="drives"></a>Drives

The drives created for use in DIVA are where you save and work with your files.

If mounted on the computer that is being used and your user account has been granted full access to the drive, the drive is available to save and work on your files.

If your user account has only been granted read-only access to the drive, you can view files and copy files from the read-only drive to another drive.

There are three different [drive types](#drive-types), each designed to work with different types of files.

## <a name="drive-types"></a>Drive Types

There are three different types of drives:

- **Avid Media** for sharing Avid MXF files between users
- **Avid Projects** for sharing Avid projects and bins between users
- **Basic** for all other types of files.

See [What are the different Drive types?](/v2/articles/what-are-the-different-drive-types.html) for more information.

## <a name="favourites"></a>Favourites

Favourites provide you with easy access to the drives you most often.
A favourite is a customised collection of DIVA drives that can be mounted in one go.
This saves users time because by using favourites, you don't have to locate and mount the drives required one-by-one.

A favourite can be set up for:

- all DIVA Client users
- a particular group of users, e.g., a project team, or
- multiple groups of users.

## <a name="password"></a>Password

A password that is unique to each user account.

<p class="text-muted">Note: You will require a password to sign in.</p>

## <a name="user"><a>User

A user is a person who has been set up with a user account to use DIVA. Each user has a unique [username](#username). Each users ability to perform tasks and access drives is restricted by the user account.

## <a name="username"></a>Username

A code that is unique to each user of DIVA.

<p class="text-muted">Note: You need your username and password when signing into DIVA. If you do not have a username or password, contact someone within your company who has administration rights to set you up with one.</p>
